There are some do not pass go, do not
collect $200 if you're gonna worry about
the performance of your application
without at least checking these two
things, right, which is one,
are you running in production mode, right?
And so we actually do like,
local server is in development mode.
And it does things like give you console
logs and yell at you about things and say,
hey, you're doing this wrong and
put extra things in the React DevTools,
which is what we're gonna look at,
and a whole slew of things like that.
Again, doing stuff takes more
time than not doing stuff, right?
So no not be the person who pulls down
your co-worker's branch after this course.
Pulls it up in development,
opens up the tools like,
did you see you have a 60
millisecond response time?
It should be 16 because that might not
actually be like that in the real app,
and then you're going to
have to make new friends.
And the easiest way to tell if your React
application is running production mode is
if you have the developer tools installed,
and it's not, you'll see
an angry red React icon, which is what
you wanna see in development, right?
Cuz you're in development
mode in development.
But if you go to whatever your
company is dot com and you see that,
it's time to tweak Webpack configs and
make that not happen, right?
If you use something like
create_react_app, you should get it for
free, if you use most of the boiler
plates, you should get it for free.
I have been bitten by this because we
had the bespoke Webpack configuration
that someone built in 2017 and
every upgrade, things happen, right?
So it's definitely worth checking that,
and the remedy for
that is, you just set the Webpack
environment to production, right?
And whatever got you accidentally in
that case is gonna be different for
everyone, but
the solution is roughly the same.
Fix it.
And then the other one,
which you have gotten yelled at in your
console when you've forgotten them,
cuz I've gotten yelled at it, and I don't
think the devtool just yelled at me.
Which is if you're iterating over a list
and you're mapping over a list of items to
render them and you don't give each
one a key, you'll get yelled at.
If you give it something like the index,
and
we'll talk about why when we
get to like a later slide.
So that React can keep track of which
one is which if they get resorted or
one gets removed.
If you don't use keys while you're mapping
over, use keys don't mean anything like
the index of the array, which is literally
gonna shift every time the array shifts.
That is the immediate gotcha that is like,
there's not a lot to say other than
listen to the warning message in your
console, right, and do the thing.
Those are the two easy ones that
we'll kinda get out of the way.
They don't have those trade offs of,
if you memorize it, you could accidentally
make it slower cuz the act of memoir
is no, no, these are the big wins.
There's no downside, just do them, right?
They work.
The other thing,
if you do not already have it,
is to go get yourself
the React Developer Tools.
They are available for at least every
chromium-based browser and Firefox.
I don't know if they are available for
Safari.
It turns out I learned that you can
go to the Chrome Store in Edge and
install the Chrome plugin in Edge and
it works.
So if you dive in React Developer Tools,
you will find those.
And we can take a look at those kinda for
a second just to see how they work and get
a sense of them, cuz I will send you on
vision quests with those in a little bit.
So if you have them installed,
one, you can choose whether or
not you want to see this.
I have done this mostly for show on
a normal day, I do the hide from toolbar,
I don't need to see an angry orange
React icon as I'm developing but
I'm here for you today.
So we've got that, and then what it
does is it adds two extra tabs to
your developer tools,
there's profiler and there is components.
Components basically gives you
a component tree, which is useful,
especially cuz it will give you the key,
it'll let you see what is being passed or
the state, you can actually
tweak the state and component.
It's very good for developing.
It is not necessarily super relevant for
diagnosing and
triaging performance issues.
But you get them both together.
So, okay.
The one that is of more concern
to us today is profiler, and
profiler kinda works like
the Performance tab does in Chrome or
Edge or what have you.
And the kind of best way to do it is to,
when you're ready,
you can go and hit this Record button and
do things, right,
like remove a user, remove a post,
add a thing, so on and so forth, right?
You can make some things move around.
And then usually, can you go
spelunking for performance problems?
Absolutely, but it's tricky, right?
Just cuz React is rendering
doesn't necessarily mean
that it's problematic, right?
You should take advantage of the fact
that I have a ridiculous laptop, right?
And we'll talk a little bit in one
second about how to simulate a less
ridiculous laptop, right?
But also understanding that the act
of it rendering does not necessarily
mean that you have a performance problem.
But you can kinda see this shows you
basically everything that rendered,
and this is kind of each interaction,
right?
So this is whatever the first
thing that I did was,
you can kinda see this is all
of the rendering process.
And we'll talk about
what that process is and
what these words mean in a slide or
two, but it kinda shows you.
And the really interesting part is that
not only will it show you the given
components, you hover over it,
what its parents was,
you can kinda see all the different
interactions that you did.
But if you click on one of them,
like on this one,
you can kinda see why did this render,
right?
And so
to trace back what the cause of it was.
If something was rendering that you
didn't think should have rendered, so for
instance, I know one here,
so I'll hit Record.
I'll hit Remove on a user.
Right, and so
that trigger almost everything, right?
And so there are questions of, did
an individual post need to post comment,
right, which one of these
really truly needed to.
And I can kinda figure out
why did you re-render?
Obviously, this is an example with
known performance issues, right, or
known rendering issues, at least.
And you can kinda get a sense for
what it was.
But it's very interesting is that once
you know you have a real problem,
you should always start with a problem.
If you just go surreptitiously
optimizing your application, one,
you might be wasting your time, two,
you might be causing more
problems than you have, right?
It usually starts with either
my favorite bug report ever,
which is it is slow, right?
Which is both like, it's also a question
I ask a lot during interviews, which is,
tell me your thought process around that,
cuz it's one that happens, right?
It's a way to start figuring it out, or
even when you're developing a feature
as you're in the middle of coding,
you might notice it.
So it's always important
to start with a problem and
then try to solve it rather
than go looking for problems.
I believe Rob Pike, one of the creators
of the Go programming language,
I believe the quote is something like
measure first before you optimize
performance and then even then measure
again, right, to make sure, right?
And that holds true, right?
Yes, we have simple apps but
that does not give you a license to go and
just find problems, right?
Once you know you have a problem,
the easiest one, the one where you know
quickly is when you're typing in an input
field, and the keys are not showing up
in the input field as you're typing in,
and I show up all at once.
That is for me the most classic one where
I'm like, I have a problem here, right?
Or when the browser truly locks up, right,
those are the issues of when it's time
to pull out the tools and jump in.
But these tools are available and they're
here and they give you the ability to kind
of begin to dig in and look, and they're
actually incredibly powerful and useful.
The other thing that you will notice if
you look very closely at my screen and
I use this when I know that
I have a problem, right?
What I actually use,
personally, this is just me,
subjective opinion,
a lot is if you wanna hit Remove,
see those green boxes flashing everywhere,
right?
Those are everything that's re-rendering,
And those will happen,
I believe there's a setting actually,
you can go into the tools here.
Record why each component rendered,
we got general.
Yeah, highlight updates
when components render.
I would definitely go turn that on.
And then whenever your
developer tools are open and
not when they're not open, which is both
good for your general web browsing, but
also you will think you have the most
performant app in your world for
a second until you realize you
closed the developer tools.
That will happen to you at least once.
Supper useful for just as you're working,
everything is flashing green.
Again, we were not seeking to
solve problems before they exist,
we're also not seeking to ignore our act
of creating a problem at the same time,
right, especially if it is one of
the no-cost performance remedies.
For instance, we saw keys, production
mode, and the one that we'll talk about at
the second is either state management,
or component hierarchy.
Those are zero downside optimizations,
while memorization some of the other
ones have some cost to them.
And sometimes, you always have to
think about even the zero cost and
performance ones,
do they have complexity cost?
Cuz if they have complexity cost,
then also it's like, yeah,
the code is a microsecond faster now, and
it takes me ten more extra minutes for
a new person looking at
this component to read it.
I don't know that you
made the best tradeoff.
So we'll kinda talk about and
think about those things as we go through.
The other thing I wanna point down here
is choosing the regular tools under
Performance.
One thing that React will do once you
have the tools installed if you're
running in development mode is,
In the regular tools,
Use the user timing API to at least
start to annotate some of the different.
This one doesn't have particularly slow
JavaScript in it like some of the other
ones do, but it will tell you
what component was rendering and
stuff along those lines,
while it won't do that in production.
So you get a little bit
more extra information.
But the more interesting part,
cuz I usually use the other one,
is if you are on a incredibly
fancy MacBook Pro like I am with
more RAM than I thought they
could put in a computer.
You can go ahead and
hit this little thing here,
which is to either throttle your
network or throttle your CPU, right?
And a lot of times, especially
depending on what you're working on,
incredibly useful, cuz what might
seem fast on your computer might not
work unlike the average, for instance,
computer on a coffee shop WiFi, right?
And so getting a sense for
both of these things on a slow network
connection and with a throttle CPU,
right, I think is a good use of kind
of having empathy for your customers,
particularly, I personally work on
a bunch of developer tooling, right?
So I can make a few assumptions about
the computers that my customers are using.
But prior to that,
I worked on a consumer product, right,
very different demographics.
And also it's tricky because while my
current customers have faster computers,
they will also shame me for
performance a lot faster as well.
So the bar is higher,
I just don't necessarily need
to throttle my computer as much.
But they will show up in my GitHub issues.
So, awesome.
So those are the developer tools and
they're super useful and
we will use them throughout the day to
figure out why stuff is re-rendering.